{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13680\viewh17180\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 SIMON GAME\
Author: Luca Onnis\
Date: 1 September 2016\
Place: Singapore\
\
We envisage creating an online platform/app of the Simon game - popular in the 80s. Simon is to be played by kids and adults alike in "individual ILL" mode (output of gamer1 is input to gamer2) or in "interactive ILL" mode (2+ gamers to co-construct the signal at each generation, and then their output is input to the next generation of gamers). In the former mode we can test signal evolution in children vs adults, and female vs male. In latter mode we could start testing hypotheses about degree of connectivity in a network.\
\
To keep things stable and maintainable I'd suggest we build a NodeJS app, with a SQLite database, and use the CreateJS library to handle the audio-visual and interactive components. To handle the interactive scenario, I'd suggest using web sockets, in particular the Socket.io library is good. It has a nice 'rooms' feature built in, so when users start a new game they can have their sockets be assigned to a joint 'room' with just the two of them, which makes the signaling logic simple. If you want to make an offline or cross-platform version, we can port the app quickly using GitHub's Electron toolkit. \
\
A good starter could be to fork and modify this javascript simon:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/kellyk/javascript-simon"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/kellyk/javascript-simon}}\
\
Or to start one from scratch.\
\
###########\
Description\
\
Purpose is to replicate Cornish Smith and Kirby as close as possible, but with some tweaks to be adapted to both adult and children players.\
\
There are two games, GAME 1 and GAME 2\
There are two alien scenarios, one for adults (more sci-fi oriented), one for children (more funny alien oriented).\
We want to implement two modalities of stimuli, one with flashing colors + funny sounds, another with flashing colors + funny words.\
\
Experimenter enters these experiment variables:\
Game number: 1 or 2\
Stim modality: sounds or words\
Gender Modality: M,F, or Mixed\
Max Errors (Game 1): an integer specifying how many wrong sequences one gets before ending the game\
Max length of sequence (Game 1): an integer to determine \
Length of sequence (Game 2): an integer specifying the length of each sequence\
interval of stim presentation: in milliseconds to determine the pace of presentation\
Number of Messages (Game 2 only): the number of sentences played to each participant\
Number of buttons: an integer specifying how many buttons should be used in the game (min 4 max 7)\
\
\
Participant info:\
IDname:\
Age:\
Gender: M or F\
\
\
Based on Age the adult or child scenario is chosen automatically by the script.\
Based on Gender, and Gender Modality, the game is played for daisy chains of only male participants, only females, or mixed if gender doesn\'92t matter.\
\
\
\
\
\
Instructions for GAME 1\
You are visiting another galaxy on your spaceship and have just met a spaceship with friendly aliens! Wow! The aliens speak a strange new language, and your task is to learn their language to make friends with them! To learn their language you have to repeat what they say. If you repeat what they say they will like you a lot!\
\
The aliens are funny and speak with their eyes! They send you messages when they wink their colorful eyes.  Watch their eyes wink and then click on the eyes to repeat what you see. The aliens have different messages for you each time, and each message gets longer.\
\
Click the eyes in the same sequence as they wink. You need to be fast, so watch the lights closely.\
\
Four strikes and then you're out. If you miss a message, you get a new message, so don't try to do the message you missed again.\
\
[for the programmer:\
- randomize each sequence\
 - repeat same sequence if player makes a mistake\
- choose a new random sequence and increase length by one if player gets the previous sequence right\
- end game after x Max Errors.\
- Feedback is given as a score, a function of length of message x time (faster responses more points)\
\
For reference see this version:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.memory-improvement-tips.com/simon-memory-game.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.memory-improvement-tips.com/simon-memory-game.html}}\
\
\
\
Instructions for GAME 2\
[GAME 2 is the actual experiment replication of Cornish et al.]\
Congratulations you are now fluent and can speak more with the alien! Look and listen carefully, his messages now will be longer so this game is harder! This time the alien will not tell you whether you are right or wrong, but will show you if he\'92s happy or not.\
\
[for programmer:\
- follow instructions in Cornish paper for stimuli and procedure.\
- first generation of players gets random sequences.\
- all other generations get as input the output from previous generation/player.\
- score is a function of similarity with played message and time.\
- there are no lives as all players go through the same fixed number of messages (Number of Messages variable)\
- alien\'92s mouth goes from very smiley to very unhappy depending on the similarity of each repeated message.\
\
Resources\
- Downloadable space sounds:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://soundbible.com/tags-alien.html"}}{\fldrslt http://soundbible.com/tags-alien.html}}\
\
- list of spoken alien words in the shared folder\
\
\
}